docs/tools/third-party/index.md, before:

# Third-Party Tools

Check out the following third-party tools that you can use with ADK agents:

<div class="tool-card-grid">

  <a href="/adk-docs/tools/third-party/github/" class="tool-card">
    <div class="tool-card-image-wrapper">
      <img src="../../assets/tools-github.png" alt="GitHub">
    </div>
    <div class="tool-card-content">
      <h3>GitHub</h3>
      <p>Analyze code, manage issues and PRs, and automate workflows</p>
    </div>
  </a>

  <a href="/adk-docs/tools/third-party/hugging-face/" class="tool-card">
    <div class="tool-card-image-wrapper">
      <img src="../../assets/tools-hugging-face.png" alt="Hugging Face">
    </div>
    <div class="tool-card-content">
      <h3>Hugging Face</h3>
      <p>Access models, datasets, research papers, and AI tools</p>
    </div>
  </a>

</div>

## Integrate with existing tools

ADK provides wrappers that can be used to integrate with existing tools from the
LangChain and CrewAI ecosystems:

*   **[LangChain Tools](/adk-docs/tools/third-party/langchain/)**:
    Integrate tools from the LangChain ecosystem.
*   **[CrewAI Tools](/adk-docs/tools/third-party/crewai/)**:
    Integrate tools from the CrewAI library.

Commit message:

docs: move AG-UI into third party tools for better discovery (#835)

docs/tools/third-party/index.md, after:

# Third-Party Tools

Check out the following third-party tools that you can use with ADK agents:

<div class="tool-card-grid">

  <a href="/adk-docs/tools/third-party/github/" class="tool-card">
    <div class="tool-card-image-wrapper">
      <img src="../../assets/tools-github.png" alt="GitHub">
    </div>
    <div class="tool-card-content">
      <h3>GitHub</h3>
      <p>Analyze code, manage issues and PRs, and automate workflows</p>
    </div>
  </a>

  <a href="/adk-docs/tools/third-party/hugging-face/" class="tool-card">
    <div class="tool-card-image-wrapper">
      <img src="../../assets/tools-hugging-face.png" alt="Hugging Face">
    </div>
    <div class="tool-card-content">
      <h3>Hugging Face</h3>
      <p>Access models, datasets, research papers, and AI tools</p>
    </div>
  </a>

</div>

## Integrate with existing tools

ADK provides tool integrations and wrappers for existing tool ecosystems
to help you extend the capabilities of your agents and workflows:

*   **[LangChain Tools](/adk-docs/tools/third-party/langchain/)**:
    Integrate tools from the LangChain ecosystem.
*   **[CrewAI Tools](/adk-docs/tools/third-party/crewai/)**:
    Integrate tools from the CrewAI library.
*   **[Agentic UI](/adk-docs/tools/third-party/ag-ui/)**:
    Use a rich, alternative web interface for ADK workflows.
